this is a singer 15k treadle
machine-made in 1945 and the first thing
I'm going to show you today is how to
thread a bobbin I'll put the thread here
on the spool pin at the base and here is
the bobbin you will see it has holes
inside and I'm going to thread the
thread through one of the holes in the
side so it comes out from the center to
the side now I will put the bobbin onto
the bobbin winder and turn it because
there is a little pin that engages it
into place it's just gone straight into
place and I'm now going to engage the
bobbin winder by pushing it down so it
comes the rubber tire comes into contact
with the balance wheel here now the
thread needs to go underneath this
thread guide here at the bottom and up
to the right so I'll pull that a little
tauter so now you can see that the
thread goes underneath the guide up from
the right up onto the bobbin here and
the bobbin is pushed into place against
the balance wheel and I have a spare
tail here to make sure it doesn't come
and thread it now I'm going to turn the
balance wheel gently towards me so that
it starts winding onto the bobbin it's
now winding and because it's all in
place I'm going to snip off the excess
thread here so it doesn't get tangled
and I'm going to start traveling
make sure that the balance wheel is
coming towards you get the motion with
the Trevor and start winding the bobbin
it's a noisy machine so I think we'll
stop I think you've seen enough when you
have threaded enough thread onto your
bobbin take it off by pushing this lever
back here it will pop up pull it off the
pin and snip the thread you also have a
tail here that you need to get rid of
snip that off too to thread the top
thread put the cotton on the spool pin
and then take the thread first of all
through this hook here at the top left
of the faceplate then take it down to
the back of the tension disks round and
underneath then up and round the tension
disks make sure that you go under this
bar here and then over that bar and down
to the side of the tension spring here
at the bat and then loop it through the
loop in the tension spoon spring here
then take it up to the top and through
the hole in the take-up lever from the
back towards the front of the machine
and then down the faceplate so that it
goes through this hook here on the
faceplate and you can just slide it
through like that then down to the hook
which is by the needle clamp through
there and then you are ready to thread
the needle which when you are facing the
machine is threaded from left to right
you
here is the bobbin case and you will see
that there is a latch here if you pull
it out you can hold the bobbin case
with one hand and then take the bobbin
so that you have the cutoff snipped end
of thread here and that is the side that
you put into the bobbin case plot it
over the pin here in the bobbin case so
that when you pull the thread you will
see that the bobbin turns clockwise then
hold the bobbin case so that you can see
this cut groove here in the edge
take the thread there and pull it down
through that cut groove and then
downwards underneath the plate on the
surface of the bobbin thread bobbin case
and then pull it until it comes out of
the top of this cutout hole here and you
have now threaded the bobbin case the
bobbin into the bobbin case when you
pull the thread it is free running
third the bobbin case into the machine
hold it by the latch and have this in
here pointing upwards
and then put it into the machine under
me so that the pin is at the top then
you are ready these are thread training
then you are ready to take one turn off
the balance wheel to pull the bobbin
thread up now we are the bobbin thread
is up we can close the slide eight put
both threads towards the back and you
are ready to sew